[Music]
hey everyone I'm Joe and today I'm going
to be making a mechanical sine wave
machine
[Music]
so I'm going to remind myself a little
bit of where the sine wave actually
comes from I'm gonna start with the
circle like this and I'm going to move
around the circle like that and as I do
I'm going to move along the x-axis on my
sine graph at each point going around
the circle I want to record the height
and that gives me the sine wave like so
there's actually this thing you can do
where you do it manually so with one
hand I'm going to draw a circle and the
other hand I'm going to move along the
page in a line but keeping both hands at
the same height and this should your
assignment okay that's that's really
let's try again there we go pretty good
[Applause]
[Music]
so basically I want to machine that does
this so we need the pen to move across
the paper horizontally but also we want
a wheel to move round as it does to push
it from side to side we could actually
do a vertical wheel and push it from
side to side like that that might be
better okay I think I have an idea this
is live so this is my grandpa's mikanos
that it's like sheets of metal have like
nuts and bolts and you screw them
together to make like cars and stuff
which is quite cool
one of the advantages of lockdown is
obviously if I have all of this stuff
[Music]
yesterday I put together the chassis so
I've got the wheels are on the bottom to
move the pan across this wheel at the
front we'll rotate moving the pan from
side to side the reason that I have
added the extra wheel on top is so that
I can detach the pan at two points which
should keep it vertical so now I need to
find a way to keep the pen touching the
paper so I'm looking for a pipe okay
[Music]
so this is where I've got to so far this
pipe will move from side to side as the
wheels rotate and if I just put a pen in
there gravity will keep the pen on the
page as this moves from side to side so
that's given me the side words motion
generated by the circular motion so what
I really need is I need a way of moving
this forward and also rotating this at
the same rate so the device I found is
this old hand drill which also belongs
to my grandpa it converts rotation in
one axis to rotation in another axis if
I attach it onto here I can move this
along the table rotating the wheel as I
do it will rotate the disks at the front
so let's test it out like I was doing at
the start I am moving along in a
straight line and around the circle I
see this works okay
we are getting a little bit but what's
happening is the resistance of the gears
here is too high and it's meaning that
even though I'm moving it along the
table I can't get this wheel to rotate
yeah I really thought that was going to
work
so I decided to call it a day yesterday
I've had a couple of ideas about how to
solve the problem of the wheel not
turning I've got a rubber band I'm going
to attach around it this will act like a
tire and offer more resistance with the
surface and I've got some wd-40 to
lubricate the gears so let's see if it
works so that is how you make a
mechanical sine-wave machine
[Music]